So, important to have clean git
history as we do this next thing.
We're gonna add API documentation
on top of API Extractor.
We already installed the tool
that we need for this,
which was @microsoft/api-documenter,
and we're gonna run it now.
Yarn, api-documenter markdown.
That's the type of documentation we want.
-i is for input,
temp -o is for output, docs.
And if we look at what's in
this temp file or temp folder,
there's our API report,
the markdown that we looked at.
And look at this json.
This is some meta information
here describing modifiers.
All right, here's a package, chat
standard lib, and here's an entry point,
here's a class, and it's called deferred,
here's a description of the class.
So, if you wanted to write your own
documentation, you could read this file,
it's a very nice organized way of sort
of articulating what's in that rollup.
So, let's press enter and see what
the markdown version of this looks like.
We should have a new docs folder.
There it is.
And I'm going to open up index.md.
We'll preview this, just so
we can see it real well.
And you see here,
we first got a list of packages.
So, this is telling you maybe in a large
project you have many libraries, and
this could be your entry point for them.
If we go into that,
here are my classes, here's deferred.
This is coming right
from my code comments.
Here's my stringify error function with
a clear description that this is a beta
thing, like it's a beta function.
But if we click on that,
it will give us the type decoration and
here are the parameters.
This is the return type.
And you can use JS.comments or
the same kinds of comments
you're likely using to describe
your code as you do today.
And this sort of gets spit out for
free as part of your build.
Nice little banner up here that
even says it's a beta preview,
maybe subject to change.
I'm somewhere in that big config file,
there's a way to even
customize this message.
So, what I like about this is we can kinda
string it all together and make it so,
when you're making a code change,
the docs kind of update
automatically as part of your build.
When you open a pull request, you get
the change to the public API surface,
the change to the docs,
the code change, all coming in at once.
And that lets you, in a large team, have
great conversations around like all right.
You made a public API change.
Did you think about what's going to break?
Who consumes this?
In what way did we change this?
Is it a backwards compatible change, or
are we gonna have to update
some things somewhere?
And then the docs are there as well
where you can say, okay, well,
so how are we explaining
this change to users?
Like you're exposing a new class here,
what should it look like?
But it's a much more holistic thing to
review than just like a couple lines of
TypeScript code that are being altered.
And because it's marked down
especially if you use GitHub.
Markdown diffs have great support
even when it's like rendered,
you'll get a little gutter like indication
that like this, this is the diff here.
So, I like the kinds of code review
discussions that happen when all of
this is sort of stitched together.
Let's add some new NPM scripts.
I've been getting some help from
class to make sure that I'm not
forgetting to build before I run
my API docs and things like that.
So, let's build three new scripts.
One's gonna be API report, and
that's gonna be yarn, api-extractor run.
We're not gonna have --local, and
I will show you why in a moment.
Next, api-docs.
And here, we're gonna have
the same command that I just ran.
Right there at the bottom.
Exactly the same as what we just ran.
And finally, build-with-docs.
And here we're just
gonna to do yarn build,
yarn api-report, yarn api-docs.
So, it's gonna do the build for us,
which will give us that updated index.dts.
It's gonna run api-extractor which
will analyse our library, and
it'll give us those nice rollup files.
And it'll put the json
file into the temp folder,
which this json file is the input for
the API documentation tool.
And then finally,
it'll generate all of the markdown there.
So with that,
I'm gonna make one more commit.
And we're gonna do a sample code change.
And then we're gonna run this command and
see what happens.
We would see in a pull request if
someone were going to make a change,
and we'll make a really
tiny little change,
where in the stringifyError function,
which is an index.ts.
We're just gonna make this
optional argument required.
Just delete the question mark, save it.
Yarn, build-with-docs.
It's doing the build,
doing api-extraction,
it's rendering new markdown docs.
We got a little warning here.
And this is what you
would see as a developer.
So, I told you we'd discuss like,
what is the --local argument for
api-extractor mean, and
the fact that we dropped it means
it's not gonna automatically
update that ETC markdown file.
This one here.
This hasn't changed.
Look at my gutter on the right.
No indication of git changes here.
But in the temp folder,
this is sort of like a staging area, and
note that we don't have
a question mark here.
This is not checked into git, so we're
not seeing a git diff of any kind here.
But if we compare the two,
that one has no question mark,
this one absolutely has a question mark.
And we're being prompted,
if we really wanna make this change.
To copy the temp, the file and
temp into the ETC folder.
That's really what --local does.
So, where might this behavior be useful?
You might have in CI something
that would run this command, and
at this point it would fail.
You would say,
you have a code change that is not
represented in the API surface report.
There is a misalignment there.
Sometimes you want that to fail.
This would be what would catch a case
where someone just made the code change
and then opened a pull request, and
it's they didn't run the api-extractor and
they didn't run api-documenter.
And that's valuable,
that's why I leave --local off here so
that you'd make sure that this
command finishes successfully.
It's failed.
Well, sorry, there's you would configure
this being a failing error you can,
in the config set it up to fail, but
that's why omitting --local
would be of benefit here.
So, we'll just do the manual step here.
Okay?
And now we can run this again.
You probably don't have to
run it again this time,
because it didn't actually fail,
it just showed a warning.
But there's a lot of tunability in terms
of what's a warning and what's an error.
And we can look at this is what the PR
would look like this these are the files
that were touched so here of course
we have the code change, right?
There's the removal of the question
mark this second argument is no longer
optional.
Here is how the API surface report change,
so this would be where you'd look you know
maybe there are a bunch of
different changes in this PR, and
maybe only one of them actually affects
the public API surface of this library.
And as a code reviewer,
you would look at this and you would say,
okay, if I can see exactly how consumers
of this library will be affected,
this is a breaking change now.
Anyone who depends on not needing
to pass that second argument,
they're gonna need to
update their code now.
So, let's talk about that.
Maybe that's what we wanna do,
but who knows?
And then finally,
there's the update to the markdown file,
documenting this function.
This is a nice complete code change here,
docs API surface report and
the change itself.
I'm gonna make a quick commit.
And congrats,
we have a small working library.
This is where we're gonna zoom out and
start working with the Slack app.
But this is this is like zero to one.
We built a library that that
compiled TypeScript to JavaScript.
We have linting with ES lint with some
TypeScript specific rules in place.
We have tests with Jess we brought in
Babel to sort of handle the TypeScript
flavor of tests for
us without requiring any special
build scripts or anything like that.
We even took a little side journey and
looked at how we could have a nice
like watch command using
concurrently TypeScript --watch, and
just in watch mode.
And then at the end here, we talked
about API surface change detection.
And a nice, simple API documentation tool,
which if you're,
if you're in a situation like what we
have here, and you're not really like
publishing docs to a website or
something, you certainly could, but
this is nice to just like having GitHub
as internal documentation for an app.
And you can change where the docs are
written to so they're all in one place,
and they can sort of be browsed together.
But this is a great solution for
an app team that just wants encapsulation
around different components of
their app as opposed to sort of
an open-source library,
where you're publishing these docs.
I use it for that too, but sometimes
people want a little more style and
some docs that look a little
bit more interesting.
These are super simple.
They come straight from
TypeScript's type information.
And I really love sort of the alpha-beta
DTS rollups, which let you evolve things
in place, knowing how you're gonna affect
various different types of consumers.